# 2.7.1 - Use unknown Instead Of Any In Type Guards

Priority | ID | Category | Criteria | Impacts
---------|----|----------|----------|--------
Major | [2.7.1][2.7.1] | Type Guards | Type guards must not accept the `any` type. Use `unknown` instead. | [Robustness][ROBUSTNESS]

Table of Contents:

- [Description](#description)
- [Discussion](#discussion)
  - [Type Guards Shine A Light On The Unknown](#type-guards-shine-a-light-on-the-unknown)

## Description

Do not use `any` as a parameter type for a type guard.

Instead, either:

* use a union type, or
* use `unknown`

## Discussion

### Type Guards Shine A Light On The Unknown

Typescript does not treat the types `any` and `unknown` the same way. Loosely put:

* `any` means "we haven't gotten around to typing it yet", and
* `unknown` means "it has a type, and we need to determine what it is before we can do anything with it".

`any` was originally added to Typescript so that you could gradually convert Javascript over to Typescript. Although there are compiler flags to tighten things up a bit, it's still a bit permissive in what it allows you to do.

It's meant to be a placeholder.

`unknown`, in contrast, was added to help us avoid resorting to `any`.

[ADOPTION]: ../../impacted-areas/ADOPTION.md
[CONTRIBUTIONS]: ../../impacted-areas/CONTRIBUTIONS.md
[CORRECTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/CORRECTNESS.md
[GOVERNANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/GOVERNANCE.md
[PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/PROJECT-MAINTENANCE.md
[ROBUSTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/ROBUSTNESS.md
[SECURITY]: ../../impacted-areas/SECURITY.md
[TESTABILITY]: ../../impacted-areas/TESTABILITY.md
[2.7.1]: ./2.7.1.md