# 1.6.1 - Smart Constructors For Everyone

Priority | ID | Category | Criteria | Impacts
---------|----|----------|----------|--------
Key | [1.6.1][1.6.1] | Types | All instantiable types must have a smart constructor. | [Robustness][ROBUSTNESS]

Table of Contents:
- [Description](#description)
- [Discussion](#discussion)

## Description

All instantiable types must have a smart constructor.

An _instantiable type_ is a type that the end-user can create objects from. This includes:

* all branded and flavoured types
* all classes that aren't base classes

A _smart constructor_ is a function or class constructor that ensures the created type has a valid value.

## Discussion

This is the whole point of this project - moving the defensive programming from _literally everywhere_ in a code base into the type constructors.

Defensive programming is an old technique for making your software robust. The basic idea is to validate all inputs (which is a good thing). Unfortunately, this was often done by adding defensive code to _each and every function_ in a piece of software.

Someone's got to write all that code, and the CPU has to run all that code. It's expensive. It's no wonder many developers and projects just don't do it.

The thing is, defensive programming is a good idea.

Without it, software isn't _robust_, and can't be _correct_. Code crashes because it receives data types or ranges that it cannot cope with. And if it doesn't crash, it tries to process data outside its planned-for / tested-for ranges, producing incorrect data which then propagates elsewhere.

That's where the Safely Typed movement comes in.

* If we move the defensive programming into our type constructors, we can be confident that our code cannot receive data types that it cannot cope with.
* If we create types that only hold valid ranges of data, we can be confident that our code cannot receives unexpected ranges of data.

We can't solve all correctness issues alone, but by providing a solid foundation of robustness, we can make good progress on the ideal of making invalid state impossible.

[ADOPTION]: ../../impacted-areas/ADOPTION.md
[CONTRIBUTIONS]: ../../impacted-areas/CONTRIBUTIONS.md
[CORRECTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/CORRECTNESS.md
[GOVERNANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/GOVERNANCE.md
[PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/PROJECT-MAINTENANCE.md
[ROBUSTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/ROBUSTNESS.md
[SECURITY]: ../../impacted-areas/SECURITY.md
[TESTABILITY]: ../../impacted-areas/TESTABILITY.md
[1.6.1]: ./1.6.1.md