# 2.6.2 - Create AnyXXX For Your Generic Types

Priority | ID | Category | Criteria | Impacts
---------|----|----------|----------|--------
Major | [2.6.2][2.6.2] | Types | All generic types must provide an `AnyXXX` type. | [Adoption][ADOPTION], [Robustness][ROBUSTNESS]

Table of Contents:

- [Description](#description)
- [Discussion](#discussion)
  - [Avoiding The 'any' Type](#avoiding-the-any-type)

## Description

All generic types must provide an `AnyXXX` type, where `XXX` is the name of the corresponding generic type.

Any `AnyXXX` is a type alias where all of the generic type parameters have been set to `any`. It's a shorthand type.

## Discussion

### Avoiding The 'any' Type

How do we write a function that accepts all variations of a type that uses generics? That's the question that this coding standard answers.

Some end-users might not realise that they can even do that. They might think that they have to resort to using the `any` type instead. That's something we want to avoid wherever possible.

By providing them with these `AnyXXX` type aliases, we show them that it can be done.

We also make the code read a little more like English.

This simple example shows how to define an `AnyXXX` type alias.

```typescript
// this is the generic type
export type AppError<T> {
    // ...
}

// and this is the type we need to create, according to this
// coding standard
export type AnyAppError = AppError<any>;

// it allows us to write functions like this:
export function examineError(e: AnyAppError) {
    // ...
}
```

[ADOPTION]: ../../impacted-areas/ADOPTION.md
[CONTRIBUTIONS]: ../../impacted-areas/CONTRIBUTIONS.md
[CORRECTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/CORRECTNESS.md
[GOVERNANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/GOVERNANCE.md
[PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/PROJECT-MAINTENANCE.md
[ROBUSTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/ROBUSTNESS.md
[SECURITY]: ../../impacted-areas/SECURITY.md
[TESTABILITY]: ../../impacted-areas/TESTABILITY.md
[2.6.2]: ./2.6.2.md