# 2.6.1 - Protect The Constructors Of Base Classes

Priority | ID | Category | Criteria | Impacts
---------|----|----------|----------|--------
Major | [2.6.1][2.6.1] | Types | All base classes must have a `protected` constructor. | [Robustness][ROBUSTNESS], [Project Maintenance][PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]

Table of Contents:

- [Description](#description)
- [Discussion](#discussion)
  - [Base Classes May Not Be Robust On Their Own](#base-classes-may-not-be-robust-on-their-own)
  - [Base Classes May Not Be Part Of The Public API](#base-classes-may-not-be-part-of-the-public-api)

## Description

All base classes must have a `protected` constructor.

A _base class_ is a class:

* that has been added to provide shared functionality to child classes, and
* that is not intended to exist as a standalone, instantiable type

## Discussion

The basic idea is that, if a class is there solely to be extended, we don't support anyone who creates new instances directly of that class.

### Base Classes May Not Be Robust On Their Own

A base class will normally be relying on its child class to act as the smart constructor.

In this case, it isn't safe to allow end-users to create instances of the base class itself.

### Base Classes May Not Be Part Of The Public API

Javascript is a modular language. It treats every file as a standalone module. We're forced to `export` everything we want to use in another file - even if the exported item isn't intended to be part of the package's public API.

If a class is exported, we currently _cannot_ stop end-users from importing it into their own code. It doesn't matter what documentation, what doctags we use. If it's exported, we must assume that someone somewhere will import it.

What we can do is at least try to encourage them to use it safely in their own code.

[ADOPTION]: ../../impacted-areas/ADOPTION.md
[CONTRIBUTIONS]: ../../impacted-areas/CONTRIBUTIONS.md
[CORRECTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/CORRECTNESS.md
[GOVERNANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/GOVERNANCE.md
[PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/PROJECT-MAINTENANCE.md
[ROBUSTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/ROBUSTNESS.md
[SECURITY]: ../../impacted-areas/SECURITY.md
[TESTABILITY]: ../../impacted-areas/TESTABILITY.md
[2.6.1]: ./2.6.1.md