# 3.6.1 - Make Interfaces Discoverable At Runtime

Priority | ID | Category | Criteria | Impacts
---------|----|----------|----------|--------
Minor | [3.6.1][3.6.1] | Types | Every interface that is meant to be implemented must define an `implementsXXX()` method. | [Robustness][ROBUSTNESS]

Table of Contents:

- [Description](#description)
- [Discussion](#discussion)
  - [Interfaces Disappear At Runtime](#interfaces-disappear-at-runtime)

## Description

Every interface that is meant to be implemented must define an `implementsXXX()` method.

Interfaces tend to fall into one of these (non-exhaustive!) categories:

* Something that's meant to be implemented by a class (aka a protocol), or
* Something that describes the data structure of a plain Typescript object (a _data bag_), or
* A workaround for Typescript's lack of nominal typing.

Any interface that falls into the first category must define an `implementsXXX()` method, where `XXX` is the name of the interface.  This method must always return `true`.

## Discussion

### Interfaces Disappear At Runtime

We want to make our code as reusable as possible. Our preferred way to do that is to create interfaces that describe small chunks of functionality - known as _protocols_ - and then write functions and methods that look for these _protocols_, instead of looking for whole classes using the `typeof` operator.

There's just one problem with that.

Interfaces in Typescript are a little different to interfaces in most other programming languages. They only exist at compile-time. You can't use them in runtime code (ie in type guards) to determine if an object supports the protocol you want or not.

To get around that, we add an `implementsXXX()` method to each of these interfaces. That allows us to write simple, quick type guards that check whether this method exists or not.


[ADOPTION]: ../../impacted-areas/ADOPTION.md
[CONTRIBUTIONS]: ../../impacted-areas/CONTRIBUTIONS.md
[CORRECTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/CORRECTNESS.md
[GOVERNANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/GOVERNANCE.md
[PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/PROJECT-MAINTENANCE.md
[ROBUSTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/ROBUSTNESS.md
[SECURITY]: ../../impacted-areas/SECURITY.md
[TESTABILITY]: ../../impacted-areas/TESTABILITY.md
[3.6.1]: ./3.6.1.md