# 2.8.5 - Avoid Optional User-Supplied Inputs

Priority | ID | Category | Criteria | Impacts
---------|----|----------|----------|--------
Major | [2.8.5][2.8.5] | Functions | Avoid optional user-supplied inputs. | [Adoption][ADOPTION], [Project Maintenance][PROJECT-MAINTENANCE], [Testability][TESTABILITY]

Table of Contents:
- [Description](#description)
- [Discussion](#discussion)
  - [Optional Input Values Are A Bad User Experience, And Bad For Long-Term Maintenance](#optional-input-values-are-a-bad-user-experience-and-bad-for-long-term-maintenance)
  - [Does The Function Need Optional Values At All?](#does-the-function-need-optional-values-at-all)
  - [The Options Object Is Your Last Resort](#the-options-object-is-your-last-resort)

## Description

Avoid optional user-supplied inputs.

User-supplied inputs are values and other data that are passed into a function. They're the data that the function operators on.

Put user-supplied optional dependencies into the options object.

Use user-supplied functional options for post-action configuration / transformation.

Put optional user-supplied inputs into the options object only as a last resort.

## Discussion

### Optional Input Values Are A Bad User Experience, And Bad For Long-Term Maintenance

At first glance, optional input values seem like a great choice.

* Their default values are explit in function signatures.
* They're really easy to spot in function calls.
* They're idiomatic in pretty much every language that supports them.

Unfortunately, without support for naming parameters in function calls (a la Python), they cause a couple of issues:

1. If the caller wants to change anything after the first optional parameter, they have to specify all of the preceeding optional parameters in their function call.
2. We can't add additional optional values without breaking backwards-compatibility.

Here's an example to illustrate these problems:

```typescript
function makeMediaType(
    input: any,
    suffix: string = "+json",
    charset: string = "utf-8",
    ... fnOpts: FunctionalOption<string>[]
): string;

// we can call if like this:
makeMediaType("application/vnd.tba.invoice");

// but if we ever wanted to chance just the `charset`,
// we'd have to do this:
makeMediaType(
    "application/vnd.tba.invoice",
    "+json",
    "us-ascii"
);

// and if we wanted to pass in any functional options,
// we have to pass in all of the optional parameters
// first
makeMediaType(
    "application/vnd.tba.invoice",
    "+json",
    "us-ascii",
    (x) => String.toUpperCase
)

// if we then did this:
function makeMediaType(
    input: any,
    suffix: string = "+json",
    charset: string = "utf-8",
    // new optional parameter added!
    jurisdiction: string = "en_US",
    ... fnOpts: FunctionalOption<string>[]
): string;

// ... our previous makeMediaType() call no longer
// compiles. We've broken backwards-compatibility.
```

### Does The Function Need Optional Values At All?

If any of the optional values are _user-supplied dependencies_ (ie, they're functions to call), move then into the user-supplied options parameter.

The user-supplied options parameter is something that we can safely expand in the future without breaking backwards-compatibility.

Can you replace the optional value with a _functional option_ instead? If you can, do so.

We can keep adding _functional options_ without breaking backwards-compatibility. They make testing easier, because they replace `if` statements in your code with a standalone, testable function.

### The Options Object Is Your Last Resort

If you absolutely need the value to create whatever data structure the _functional options_ will be applied to, then you'll have to put it into the options object.

It goes into the options object because we can safely expand it in the future without breaking backwards-compatibility.


[ADOPTION]: ../../impacted-areas/ADOPTION.md
[CONTRIBUTIONS]: ../../impacted-areas/CONTRIBUTIONS.md
[CORRECTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/CORRECTNESS.md
[GOVERNANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/GOVERNANCE.md
[PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/PROJECT-MAINTENANCE.md
[ROBUSTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/ROBUSTNESS.md
[SECURITY]: ../../impacted-areas/SECURITY.md
[TESTABILITY]: ../../impacted-areas/TESTABILITY.md
[2.8.5]: ./2.8.5.md