# 2.8.8 - Assign Default Values To All Optional Inputs

Priority | ID | Category | Criteria | Impacts
---------|----|----------|----------|--------
Major | [2.8.8][2.8.8] | Functions | Ever user-supplied option must have a default value. | [Adoption][ADOPTION], [Testability][TESTABILITY]

Table of Contents:
- [Description](#description)
- [Discussion](#discussion)
  - [Eliminate Complexity](#eliminate-complexity)

## Description

Every _user-supplied option_ must have a default value.

_User-supplied options_ are optional inputs into a function or method. They are provided by the caller.

Specifically, this ensures that no _user-defined option_ ever has the value `undefined`.

NOTE: we are **not** eliminating the use of `null` here. `null` and `undefined` are different types, and are used for different purposes.

* `null` is a value that means there is no data,
* `undefined` means that we don't know what the value is

## Discussion

### Eliminate Complexity

The Typescript compiler treats an optional value without a default value like this:

```typescript
const Optional<T> = T|undefined;
```

Your optional value can be either type `T`, or it can be `undefined`. The compiler won't know which it is:

```typescript
function fn1(input: any, { onError }: { onError?: OnError}) {
    // the compiler will complain, because `onError`
    // may be `undefined`
    throw onError(...);
}
```

This forces you to start adding complexity to your code. You have to use a _type guard_:

```typescript
function fn1(input: any, { onError }: { onError?: OnError}) {
    if (onError instanceof OnError) {
        throw onError(...);
    } else {
        // er - what do you do here?
    }
}
```

Look at that `else` branch above. What do you do there?

* Do you do nothing, and end up silently ignoring the problem?
* Do you throw an error, and add even more complexity and fragility to the code?

This kind of problem can be completely avoided simply by assigning a default value to every option input parameter.

If an optional value has a default, it can never be `undefined`.

* There's no need to call a _type guard_.
* There's no extra `if` / `else` branch to write tests for.

And you don't have to worry about what to do if the value is `undefined`.

```typescript
function fn1(
    input: any,
    { onError = THROW_THE_ERROR }: { onError?: OnError}) {

    // this now works
    throw onError(...);
}
```

[ADOPTION]: ../../impacted-areas/ADOPTION.md
[CONTRIBUTIONS]: ../../impacted-areas/CONTRIBUTIONS.md
[CORRECTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/CORRECTNESS.md
[GOVERNANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/GOVERNANCE.md
[PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/PROJECT-MAINTENANCE.md
[ROBUSTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/ROBUSTNESS.md
[SECURITY]: ../../impacted-areas/SECURITY.md
[TESTABILITY]: ../../impacted-areas/TESTABILITY.md
[2.8.8]: ./2.8.8.md