# 2.8.1 - Function Parameters Go Into A Specific Order

Priority | ID | Category | Criteria | Impacts
---------|----|----------|----------|--------
Major | [2.8.1][2.8.1] | Functions | All function signatures must follow the same pattern. | [Adoption][ADOPTION], [Correctness][CORRECTNESS], [Robustness][ROBUSTNESS], [Testability][TESTABILITY]

Table of Contents:

- [Description](#description)
- [Discussion](#discussion)
  - [Reusability Is Our Driver](#reusability-is-our-driver)
  - [Why Isn't User-Supplied Input Last In The List?](#why-isnt-user-supplied-input-last-in-the-list)

## Description

All function signatures must follow the same pattern:

`(<mandatory dependencies>, <user-supplied input>, <user-supplied options>, <user-supplied functional options>)`

where:

- _mandatory dependencies_ are any functions that are passed into the function for use,
- _user-supplied input_ are data parameters that the end-user will provide,
- _user-supplied options_ is an object containing optional dependencies,
- _user-supplied functional options_ is a list of functions to be applied before the function returns

## Discussion

### Reusability Is Our Driver

We want the SafelyTyped code to be as re-usable as possible. We've designed this function signature to help us with that.

* We've adopted _dependency injection_, so that functions can be reused as much as possible.
* We've adopted _[functional options][functional-options]_, because they're easier to read than an obscure set of optional parameters, they can contain their own robustness and correctness code, and they can be tested in isolation.

### Why Isn't User-Supplied Input Last In The List?

In functional programming, the convention is to put user-supplied input last. This allows the creation of partial functions. That's something we can do in Typescript using `Function.bind()`.

So why are there other parameter types _after_ the user-supplied input?

We're not looking to support a purely-functional programming paradigm. The majority of programmers in the Javascript / Typescript world are imperative programmers. They are not used to reading or working with function signatures that are purely functional in style.

On top of that, it's idiomatic Javascript to pass in options after the main input parameters.

The _user-supplied options_ and any _functional options_ are parameters that are meant to be provided by the user who eventually calls our function. They're not meant to be pre-bound at all.

If you do need to pre-bind them, you can do that using an arrow function:

```typescript
// an object contain the default options you want to pass into
// the wrapped function
const myDefaultOptions = { ... };

// an array containing the default functional options you want
// to pass into the wrapped function
const myDefaultFnOptions = [ ... ];

// `myPartial` is a wrapper around another function
//
// it uses the spread operator to apply both our defaults
// and the user-provided values
export const myPartial = (
    input: any,
    userDefaults: Options,
    ...userFnOpts: FunctionalOptions[]
): OUT => myWrappedFunction(
    input,
    {...myDefaultOptions, ...userDefaults },
    ...myDefaultFnOptions,
    ...userFnOptions
);
```

Arrow functions have the advantage that they're easier to read than constants created using `.bind()`, whilst also having similar performance.

[ADOPTION]: ../../impacted-areas/ADOPTION.md
[CONTRIBUTIONS]: ../../impacted-areas/CONTRIBUTIONS.md
[CORRECTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/CORRECTNESS.md
[GOVERNANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/GOVERNANCE.md
[PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/PROJECT-MAINTENANCE.md
[ROBUSTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/ROBUSTNESS.md
[SECURITY]: ../../impacted-areas/SECURITY.md
[TESTABILITY]: ../../impacted-areas/TESTABILITY.md
[functional options]: https://dave.cheney.net/2014/10/17/functional-options-for-friendly-apis
[2.8.1]: ./2.8.1.dm