# 2.8.4 - Named Parameters For User-Supplied Inputs

Priority | ID | Category | Criteria | Impacts
---------|----|----------|----------|--------
Major | [2.8.4][2.8.4] | Functions | Every user-supplied input must be a named parameter. | [Adoption][ADOPTION], [Correctness][CORRECTNESS]

Table of Contents:
- [Description](#description)
- [Discussion](#discussion)

## Description

Every user-supplied input must be a named parameter.

User-supplied inputs are values and other data that are passed into a function. They're the data that the function operators on.

## Discussion

Types tell users what a parameter is. Names tell users what a parameter will be used for.

Parameter names are one of our best opportunities for providing the end-user with documentation. When it comes to _user-supplied inputs_, we can use the parameter name to tell the end-user what piece of data we're after.

We can't rely on the parameter's type signature alone to communicate that.

The parameter's type signature doesn't guarantee complete correctness on its own. They don't stop the user from passing in the wrong piece of data. They only stop the user from passing in the wrong _shape_ of data.

A parameter name is only a hint. Users can ignore it. Compilers can't use it to enforce anything. By making sure these parameters are named, it gives us an opportunity to help users send the correct data.

[ADOPTION]: ../../impacted-areas/ADOPTION.md
[CONTRIBUTIONS]: ../../impacted-areas/CONTRIBUTIONS.md
[CORRECTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/CORRECTNESS.md
[GOVERNANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/GOVERNANCE.md
[PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/PROJECT-MAINTENANCE.md
[ROBUSTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/ROBUSTNESS.md
[SECURITY]: ../../impacted-areas/SECURITY.md
[TESTABILITY]: ../../impacted-areas/TESTABILITY.md
[2.8.4]: ./2.8.4.md