# 2.8.2 - Use Dependency Injection

Priority | ID | Category | Criteria | Impacts
---------|----|----------|----------|--------
Major | [2.8.2][2.8.2] | Functions | Functions should use dependency injection. | [Adoption][ADOPTION], [Testability][TESTABILITY]

Table of Contents:
- [Description](#description)
- [Discussion](#discussion)
  - [Why Is Hard-Coding Function Calls An Issue?](#why-is-hard-coding-function-calls-an-issue)
  - [Does It Need To Be Hard-Coded?](#does-it-need-to-be-hard-coded)
  - [Consider Creating A Wrapped Function](#consider-creating-a-wrapped-function)

## Description

Functions should use dependency injection.

A _dependency_ is any function that you call from your function.

You only need to do this where it makes sense to support dependencies.

## Discussion

### Why Is Hard-Coding Function Calls An Issue?

Have you ever wanted to re-use a function or method, because it almost does what you want? But you can't, because there's one thing hard-coded in it that you need to change?

That's a major cause of cut-and-paste code duplication. Instead of re-using the code, you're forced to make your own copy of the code, just so that you can make that small change in your copy.

Only now, you've got an extra piece of code to write tests for, and to maintain forever more.

We want our safe types - and the functions that operate on them - to be as re-usable as possible. Re-used code reduces the amount of unit tests that have to be created.

Dependency injection for functions helps us achieve that.

### Does It Need To Be Hard-Coded?

Once you've hard-coded in a function call, you've limited what your function can do _forever_.

Sometimes, that is the right thing to do. At some point in a project, we need to define functions that do specific tasks in a specific way. It doesn't make sense for business logic to always be calling generic functions. That's the road to inconsisent behaviour and Maintenance Hell(tm).

Is there a more generic version of your function, one where the dependencies can be passed in as parameters? If there is, create both.

### Consider Creating A Wrapped Function

You can create a specific function by wrapping a generic function.

```typescript
export function normaliseString(
    normaliser: (x: string) => string,
    input: string
): string;

export const normaliseContentType = (
    input: any
) => normalizeString(String.toLowerCase, input);
```

Make sure that you document and export both functions.

[ADOPTION]: ../../impacted-areas/ADOPTION.md
[CONTRIBUTIONS]: ../../impacted-areas/CONTRIBUTIONS.md
[CORRECTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/CORRECTNESS.md
[GOVERNANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/GOVERNANCE.md
[PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/PROJECT-MAINTENANCE.md
[ROBUSTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/ROBUSTNESS.md
[SECURITY]: ../../impacted-areas/SECURITY.md
[TESTABILITY]: ../../impacted-areas/TESTABILITY.md
[2.8.2]: ./2.8.2.md