# 2.8.3 - Named Mandatory Dependencies

Priority | ID | Category | Criteria | Impacts
---------|----|----------|----------|--------
Major | [2.8.3][2.8.3] | Functions | Every mandatory dependency must be a named function parameter. | [Correctness][CORRECTNESS]

Table of Contents:
- [Description](#description)
- [Discussion](#discussion)
- [Examples](#examples)
  - [Example 1](#example-1)

## Description

Every mandatory dependency must be a named function parameter.

A _mandatory dependency_ is a function. It gets passed into a function as a parameter. It does not have an optional value.

## Discussion

Types tell users what a parameter is. Names tell users what a parameter will be used for.

Parameter names are one of our best opportunities for providing the end-user with documentation. When it comes to _mandatory dependencies_, we can use the parameter name to tell the end-user what kind of work that dependency is going to do.

We can't rely on the parameter's type signature alone to communicate that.

## Examples

### Example 1

Consider this function signature:

```typescript
export function buildNominalSmartConstructor<IN, OUT extends AnyNominal>(
    contract: DataGuarantee<IN>,
    defaultOptions: NominalSmartConstructorOptions = DEFAULT_NOMINAL_SMART_CONSTRUCTOR_OPTIONS,
    ...initialFnOpts: FunctionalOption<OUT>[]
): SmartConstructor<IN, OUT>;
```

Here, we're using the name `contract` for the _mandatory dependency_. (Hopefully!) this name tells the user that this dependency is going to be used to validate the incoming data.

[ADOPTION]: ../../impacted-areas/ADOPTION.md
[CONTRIBUTIONS]: ../../impacted-areas/CONTRIBUTIONS.md
[CORRECTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/CORRECTNESS.md
[GOVERNANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/GOVERNANCE.md
[PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/PROJECT-MAINTENANCE.md
[ROBUSTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/ROBUSTNESS.md
[SECURITY]: ../../impacted-areas/SECURITY.md
[TESTABILITY]: ../../impacted-areas/TESTABILITY.md
[2.8.3]: ./2.8.3.md