# 3.8.2 - User Supplied Options Are For Dependencies

Priority | ID | Category | Criteria | Impacts
---------|----|----------|----------|--------
Minor | [3.8.2][3.8.2] | Functions | Limit user-supplied options to optional dependencies. | [Correctness][CORRECTNESS], [Project Maintenance][PROJECT-MAINTENANCE], [Testability][TESTABILITY]

Table of Contents:
- [Description](#description)
- [Discussion](#discussion)
  - [Optional Values Often Require Extra Logic](#optional-values-often-require-extra-logic)

## Description

Limit user-supplied options to optional dependencies.

Don't put optional values into the _user-supplied options_ object unless there's no alternative.

_User-supplied options_ are optional inputs into a function or method. They are provided by the caller.

_Dependencies_ are functions that your function will call.

If you want to support optional values, convert them into _functional options_ instead.

Only add optional values to _user supplied options_ if they are needed to create the data structure that the functional options will work on.

## Discussion

### Optional Values Often Require Extra Logic

Safe types have their limits. Or, perhaps more accurately, there's a limit to how many safe types a project will create.

It isn't always practical to create a refined type for every single input parameter.

* If the type is only used in one function call, it can be hard to justify the time (and future maintenance burden) involved.
* The valid range of values may only be known at runtime, making a dedicated refined type almost meaningless.

As a result, sometimes, our functions have to accept a larger type, and then validate them internally.

That (necessary!) validation logic increases the size and complexity of our functions.

We can make that more manageable by moving that logic into individual _functional options_.

[ADOPTION]: ../../impacted-areas/ADOPTION.md
[CONTRIBUTIONS]: ../../impacted-areas/CONTRIBUTIONS.md
[CORRECTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/CORRECTNESS.md
[GOVERNANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/GOVERNANCE.md
[PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/PROJECT-MAINTENANCE.md
[ROBUSTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/ROBUSTNESS.md
[SECURITY]: ../../impacted-areas/SECURITY.md
[TESTABILITY]: ../../impacted-areas/TESTABILITY.md
[3.8.2]: ./3.8.2.md