# 3.8.1 - Create Types For Function Option Objects

Priority | ID | Category | Criteria | Impacts
---------|----|----------|----------|--------
Minor | [3.8.1][3.8.1] | Functions | Create a type for your function's user-supplied options. | [Adoption][ADOPTION]

Table of Contents:
- [Description](#description)
- [Discussion](#discussion)
  - [Types Help Users Catch Errors As They Write Code](#types-help-users-catch-errors-as-they-write-code)
  - [Isolate Types To Eliminate Accidental Scope-Creep](#isolate-types-to-eliminate-accidental-scope-creep)

## Description

Create a type for your function's user-supplied options.

_User-supplied options_ are optional inputs into a function or method. They are provided by the caller.

This type should have a unique name. The name should be related to your function.

## Discussion

### Types Help Users Catch Errors As They Write Code

This is for users who are using an IDE that type-checks the code as they write it. Visual Studio Code does this.

If the user attempts to pass in incompatible options to a function call, the IDE (and the compiler!) will report a problem:

```typescript
export const exampleFunction(
    input: any,
    {opt1 = "hello"}: { opt1?: string }
){ ... }

// this will be flagged as a problem
exampleFunction("booyah", { opt1: false} );
```

This happens whether or not we define a type for the options.
But it only happens at the site of the function call.

Imagine the user is building the options elsewhere, and then passing them into the function:

```typescript
interface ExampleFunctionOptions = {
    opt1?: string
};

export const exampleFunction(
    input: any,
    {opt1 = "hello"}: ExampleFunctionOptions
){ ... }

const options: ExampleFunctionOptions = {};
if (doSomething()) {
    // this is the line that the IDE will flag as a problem!
    options.opt1 = false;
}
exampleFunction("booyah", options);
```

By introducing a type for the options, the IDE (and compiler) can now catch problems earlier on.

Yes, it only helps if users use these types. They can't make their code safer if we don't provide these types in the first place.

### Isolate Types To Eliminate Accidental Scope-Creep

Image you've got a set of functions that all share the same options. You might be tempted to have them reuse the same type:

```typescript
export interface ModuleOptions {
    onError?: OnError;
}

function fn1(input: any, options: ModuleOptions) { ... }
function fn2(input: any, options: ModuleOptions) { ... }
```

What happens when you decide to add another option to `fn1()`? Chances are, you'll do something like this:

```typescript
export interface ModuleOptions {
    onError?: OnError;
    // we've added a new option!
    newOption: NewOptionType;
}

function fn1(input: any, options: ModuleOptions) { ... }
function fn2(input: any, options: ModuleOptions) { ... }
```

Unfortunately, to the end-user, it now looks likes `fn2()` supports the `newOption`. But you only added code for that into `fn1()`.

What happens?

The end-user is going to try using the `newOption` with `fn2()`, and then they're going to waste time trying to figure out why it didn't work. They'll probably assume that it's something they've done wrong.

Eventually, they'll work out that the problem is with `fn2()`, and not with their code. At that point ...

* they might ignore it, and carry on
* they might file a bug report,
* or they might stop using your code entirely

Don't waste other people's time. Don't tarnish the project's reputation.

Create separate types for each function:

```typescript
// fn1() gets the new option
export interface fn1Options {
    onError?: OnError;
    newOption: NewOptionType;
}

// fn2() doesn't
export interface fn2Options {
    onError?: OnError;
}

function fn1(input: any, options: fn1Options) { ... }
function fn2(input: any, options: fn2Options) { ... }
```


[ADOPTION]: ../../impacted-areas/ADOPTION.md
[CONTRIBUTIONS]: ../../impacted-areas/CONTRIBUTIONS.md
[CORRECTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/CORRECTNESS.md
[GOVERNANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/GOVERNANCE.md
[PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/PROJECT-MAINTENANCE.md
[ROBUSTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/ROBUSTNESS.md
[SECURITY]: ../../impacted-areas/SECURITY.md
[TESTABILITY]: ../../impacted-areas/TESTABILITY.md
[3.8.1]: ./3.8.1.md