# 3.1.4 - Use Typedoc Tags

Priority | ID | Category | Criteria | Impacts
---------|----|----------|----------|--------
Minor | [3.1.4][3.1.4] | Documentation | Docblocks must use Typedoc tags. | [Adoption][ADOPTION], [Contributions][CONTRIBUTIONS], [Project Maintenance][PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]

Table of Contents:

- [Description](#description)
- [Discussion](#discussion)
  - [Why Docblocks?](#why-docblocks)
  - [Why Typedoc?](#why-typedoc)
- [Examples](#examples)

## Description

Docblocks must use Typedoc tags.

**We've adopted Typedoc as our auto-doc generator**.

We need to use the following Typedoc tags in our documentation:

* `{@link}` makes it easier for readers to navigate from one exported type, function or method to other, related items.
* `@category` makes it easier for readers to find and see related items in one place.
* `@internal` makes sure that Typedoc doesn't clutter up the generated docs with items that aren't part of our public API.
* `@param` means that readers don't have to dig into our source code to work out what a function or method's parameter is meant to be.
* `@return` or `@returns` (both work) also means that readers don't have to dig into our source code to work out what a function or method is sending back to the caller.
* `@template` helps to demystify any generic types we use.

## Discussion

### Why Docblocks?

Good documentation is important. It helps people to start using our code in the first place, and to use it with limited friction. It also helps people contribute new features to our existing code.

Unfortunately, most people simply do not have time to create hand-written / manually-maintained documentation. It can easily add 20-30% on top of the time it takes to write thoroughly-tested code. So a compromise is necessary.

We need to use a tool that can automatically generate documentation from our code and docblocks together.

We are assuming that the auto-generated docs could be the only documentation available to end-users and contributors alike.

### Why Typedoc?

Honestly, right now, all the available doc tools for Typescript fall a bit short.

We have to pick one, and for better or worse, we're going with Typedoc for now.

* It's very easy to use.
* It uses a minimal number of doctags. That should reduce the amount of work we have to do in the future to migrate to a better tool if/when one comes along.
* The docs it generates are just-about good enough to use as reference docs.
* It does have issues with a couple of Typescript features that we use heavily:
  * functions assigned to constants
  * deconstructed objects

We're keeping an eye on the [@microsoft/tsdoc](https://github.com/microsoft/tsdoc) initiative (which the Typedoc authors are contributing to). As it stabilises and tools adopt it, we'll revisit this.

## Examples

This example shows how a docblock should look.

```typescript
/**
 * `Value` describes the behaviour of data that does have a value,
 * but does not have an identity (a primary key).
 *
 * It is useful for ensuring all value objects have a *minimal* set
 * of common behaviour, whether or not they share a common base class.
 *
 * Use {@link Entity} for data that does have an identity.
 *
 * @category Archetypes
 * @template T the type that is wrapped
 */
export interface Value<T> {
    /**
     * `implementsValue()` is a type-guard.
     *
     * It was added to help the `isValue()` type guard function.
     */
    implementsValue(): this is Value<T>;

    /**
     * `valueOf()` returns the wrapped value.
     *
     * For types passed by reference, we do NOT return a clone of any kind.
     * You have to be careful not to accidentally change this value.
     *
     * @returns the wrapped value
     */
    valueOf(): T;
}
```

[ADOPTION]: ../../impacted-areas/ADOPTION.md
[CONTRIBUTIONS]: ../../impacted-areas/CONTRIBUTIONS.md
[CORRECTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/CORRECTNESS.md
[GOVERNANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/GOVERNANCE.md
[PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/PROJECT-MAINTENANCE.md
[ROBUSTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/ROBUSTNESS.md
[SECURITY]: ../../impacted-areas/SECURITY.md
[TESTABILITY]: ../../impacted-areas/TESTABILITY.md
[3.1.4]: ./3.1.4.md