# 3.1.5 - Document Overridden Methods

Priority | ID | Category | Criteria | Impacts
---------|----|----------|----------|--------
Minor | [3.1.5][3.1.5] | Documentation | Write docblocks for overridden methods. | [Adoption][ADOPTION]

Table of Contents:

- [Description](#description)
- [Discussion](#discussion)

## Description

Write docblocks for overridden methods.

If your class overrides a method (a method that was defined in any of the base classes), you must write a full docblock for that method.

Do not:

* write no docblock at all
* write a minimal docblock that tells the reader to refer to the base class's documentation

## Discussion

This is about saving time, and reducing confusion, for end-users.

* An end-user might see a docblock as a tooltip in their IDE.
* They might see it when they're digging into the source code using a non-IDE text editor like `vim`.
* They might see it when they're browsing the GitHub repo.

It doesn't matter how the user is reading the code.

We can't assume that the end-user is using a tool that will easily show them the docblock from the original, overridden method. We cannot require it either.

[ADOPTION]: ../../impacted-areas/ADOPTION.md
[CONTRIBUTIONS]: ../../impacted-areas/CONTRIBUTIONS.md
[CORRECTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/CORRECTNESS.md
[GOVERNANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/GOVERNANCE.md
[PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/PROJECT-MAINTENANCE.md
[ROBUSTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/ROBUSTNESS.md
[SECURITY]: ../../impacted-areas/SECURITY.md
[TESTABILITY]: ../../impacted-areas/TESTABILITY.md
[3.1.5]: ./3.1.5.md