# 3.1.1 - Write Docblocks

Priority | ID    | Category      | Criteria                        | Impacts
---------|-------|---------------|---------------------------------|--------
Minor    | [3.1.1][3.1.1] | Documentation | Every exported item must have a docblock. | [Adoption][ADOPTION], [Project Maintenance][PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]

Table of Contents:

- [Description](#description)
- [Discussion](#discussion)
  - [Docblocks Are Primary Documentation](#docblocks-are-primary-documentation)
  - [The Tooling Will Get Better](#the-tooling-will-get-better)

## Description

Every exported item must have a docblock.

An _exported item_ is anything that is exported from the local module. This includes:

* everything exported out of any `.ts` file, even for internal use
* anything exported outside the package via the `index.ts` files

A _docblock_ is a comment immediately preceeding the definition of a type or value.

## Discussion

### Docblocks Are Primary Documentation

A docblock is the only documentation that a developer is likely to see, because it appears in their IDE.

### The Tooling Will Get Better

At the time of writing, Typescript doesn't have the same quality of documentation tools that other languages enjoy.

We can't use that as an excuse to not write docblocks.

The tools will improve as time goes on. And, until then, we've got to think of the tooltips that developers see in their IDE.

[ADOPTION]: ../../impacted-areas/ADOPTION.md
[CONTRIBUTIONS]: ../../impacted-areas/CONTRIBUTIONS.md
[CORRECTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/CORRECTNESS.md
[GOVERNANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/GOVERNANCE.md
[PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/PROJECT-MAINTENANCE.md
[ROBUSTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/ROBUSTNESS.md
[SECURITY]: ../../impacted-areas/SECURITY.md
[TESTABILITY]: ../../impacted-areas/TESTABILITY.md
[3.1.1]: ./3.1.1.md