# 3.1.6 - Document Class Methods That Implement Interfaces

Priority | ID | Category | Criteria | Impacts
---------|----|----------|----------|--------
Minor | [3.1.6][3.1.6] | Documentation | Write docblocks for methods inherited from interfaces. | [Adoption][ADOPTION]

- [Description](#description)
- [Discussion](#discussion)
- [Examples](#examples)
  - [Example 1](#example-1)

## Description

Write docblocks for methods inherited from interfaces.

If your class implements a method that was defined by an interface, you must write a full docblock for that method.

Do not:

* write no docblock at all
* write a minimal docblock that tells the reader to refer to the interface's documentation

## Discussion

This is about saving time, and reducing confusion, for end-users.

* An end-user might see a docblock as a tooltip in their IDE.
* They might see it when they're digging into the source code using a non-IDE text editor like `vim`.
* They might see it when they're browsing the GitHub repo.

It doesn't matter what method a user is using to read the souce code.

We can't assume that the end-user is using a tool that will easily show them the docblock from the underlying interface. We cannot require it either.

## Examples

### Example 1

In this example, `ValueObject` implements 2 methods originally defined in the `Value` interface. `ValueObject` provides full docblocks for both methods.

_Some docblocks and properties have been removed to make the example clearer._

```typescript
export interface Value<T> {
    /**
     * `implementsValue()` is a helper method for the {@link isValue} type guard
     * function.
     */
    implementsValue(): this is Value<T>;

    /**
     * `valueOf()` returns the wrapped value.
     *
     * For types passed by reference, we do NOT return a clone of any kind.
     * You have to be careful not to accidentally change this value.
     *
     * @returns the wrapped value
     */
    valueOf(): T;
}

export class ValueObject<T> implements Value<T> {
    /**
     * `valueOf()` returns the wrapped value.
     *
     * For types passed by reference, we do NOT return a clone of any kind.
     * You have to be careful not to accidentally change this value.
     *
     * @returns the data that is stored in this object.
     */
    public valueOf(): T {
        return this.value;
    }

    /**
     * `implementsValue()` is a helper method for the {@link isValue} type guard
     * function.
     */
    public implementsValue(): this is Value<T> {
        return true;
    }
}
```

[ADOPTION]: ../../impacted-areas/ADOPTION.md
[CONTRIBUTIONS]: ../../impacted-areas/CONTRIBUTIONS.md
[CORRECTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/CORRECTNESS.md
[GOVERNANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/GOVERNANCE.md
[PROJECT-MAINTENANCE]: ../../impacted-areas/PROJECT-MAINTENANCE.md
[ROBUSTNESS]: ../../impacted-areas/ROBUSTNESS.md
[SECURITY]: ../../impacted-areas/SECURITY.md
[TESTABILITY]: ../../impacted-areas/TESTABILITY.md
[3.1.6]: ./3.1.6.md